doc: add guide for running tests with teuthology (#32114)
ceph/ceph: doc/dev/developer_guide/index.rst

.. note:: You may also be interested in the :doc:`/dev/internals` documentation.

> 

Reviewer: could you add a
```
.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    intro
    essentials
    merging
    ...
```
here?

Author: Removed `:hidden:` instead.

``target149202171058.teuthology``) are resolvable within the teuthology
cluster.

Running Integration Tests using Teuthology
==========================================

Getting binaries
----------------
To run integration tests using teuthology, you need to have Ceph binaries
built for your branch. Following is how you can initiate the build process -

#. Push your branch to `ceph-ci`_ repository. This triggers the process of
   building the binaries.

#. To confirm that the build process has initiated, spot your branch name
   at `Shaman`_. Little after the build process has initiated, the single
   entry with your branch name would multiply, each new entry for a different
   OS.

> #. Wait for the build process to complete. Usually, it takes around 2-3 hours

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Wait for the build process (preferably for every distro)  to complete. Usually, it takes around 2-3 hours
```

>    depending on the availability of the machines. It's better to wait before

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   depending on the availability of the machines.
```

>    the build proccess is complete for every distro.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

.. note:: You don't need a PR branch to run integration tests, you can push
   any branch to ceph-ci.

.. note:: In case you are pushing master or any other standard branch, check
   `Shaman`_ beforehand since it already might have builds ready for it.

Triggering Tests
----------------
After building is complete, proceed to trigger tests -

#. Log in to the teuthology machine::

       ssh <username>@teuthology.front.sepia.ceph.com

>    You would need access to Sepia lab for this. If you don't have one, you can

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   This requires Sepia lab access. If you don't have one, see [Sepia lab notes](https://ceph.github.io/sepia/adding_users/) to request it.
```

>    request that. See: https://ceph.github.io/sepia/adding_users/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

for ``modules`` attribute. For ``cephfs-shell.yaml`` the ``mpdules`` attribute
is ``tasks.cephfs.test_cephfs_shell`` which means it'll trigger all tests in
``qa/tasks/cephfs/test_cephfs_shell.py``.

Killing Tests
-------------
Sometimes your job might not complete running for several minutes or even
hours even after tests you had trigged have completed running and other times
you just might trigger few tests by mistake. You can terminate a job case as
follows::

        teuthology-kill -r teuthology-2019-12-10_05:00:03-smoke-master-testing-basic-smithi

Let's call the the argument passed to ``-r`` as test ID. You can find it
easily in the link to the Pulpito page for the test. For example, for the
above test ID, the link is - http://pulpito.front.sepia.ceph.com/teuthology-2019-12-10_05:00:03-smoke-master-testing-basic-smithi/

Re-running Tests
----------------
Pass ``--rerun`` option, with test ID as an argument to it, to
``teuthology-suite`` command::

    teuthology-suite -v -m smithi -c wip-rishabh-fs-test_cephfs_shell-fix -p 50 --rerun teuthology-2019-12-10_05:00:03-smoke-master-testing-basic-smithi

> The meaning of rest of the options is already covered before.

Reviewer 2: This line can be dropped.

Author: It's nice to have, IMO, when someone directly jumps to this sub-section or when someone is skimming through docs.

Reviewer 2: Since it is a `rerun` and options are defined few sub-sections up in the same page. This line can be skipped.

==========================================

Getting binaries
----------------
To run integration tests using teuthology, you need to have Ceph binaries
built for your branch. Follow these steps to initiate the build process -

#. Push the branch to `ceph-ci`_ repository. This triggers the process of
   building the binaries.

#. To confirm that the build process has initiated, spot the branch name
   at `Shaman`_. Little after the build process has initiated, the single
   entry with your branch name would multiply, each new entry for a different
   OS.

#. Wait until the build process is complete (preferably, for every distro).
   Usually, it takes around 2-3 hours depending on the availability of the
   machines.

.. note:: Branch to be pushed on ceph-ci can be any branch, it shouldn't
   necessarily be a PR branch.

.. note:: In case you are pushing master or any other standard branch, check
   `Shaman`_ beforehand since it already might have builds ready for it.

Triggering Tests
----------------
After building is complete, proceed to trigger tests -

#. Log in to the teuthology machine::

       ssh <username>@teuthology.front.sepia.ceph.com

>    This would Sepia lab access. To know how to request it, see: https://ceph.github.io/sepia/adding_users/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   This would require Sepia lab access. To know how to request it, see: https://ceph.github.io/sepia/adding_users/
```

Author: Fixed, thanks!

is ``tasks.cephfs.test_cephfs_shell`` which means it'll trigger all tests in
``qa/tasks/cephfs/test_cephfs_shell.py``.

Killing Tests
-------------
Sometimes a teuthology job might not complete running for several minutes or
even hours after tests that were trigged have completed running and other
times wrong set of tests can be triggered is filter wasn't chosen carefully.
To save resource it's better to termniate such a job. Following is the command
to terminate a job::

        teuthology-kill -r teuthology-2019-12-10_05:00:03-smoke-master-testing-basic-smithi

Let's call the the argument passed to ``-r`` as test ID. It can be found
easily in the link to the Pulpito page for the tests you triggered. For
example, for the above test ID, the link is - http://pulpito.front.sepia.ceph.com/teuthology-2019-12-10_05:00:03-smoke-master-testing-basic-smithi/

Re-running Tests
----------------
Pass ``--rerun`` option, with test ID as an argument to it, to
``teuthology-suite`` command::

    teuthology-suite -v -m smithi -c wip-rishabh-fs-test_cephfs_shell-fix -p 50 --rerun teuthology-2019-12-10_05:00:03-smoke-master-testing-basic-smithi

> The meaning of rest of the options is already covered before.

Reviewer 2: At least change this to: 
```suggestion
Refer triggering-tests section for option details.
```

Author: Fixed.

Teuthology Archives
-------------------
Once the tests have finished running, the log for the job can be obtained by
clicking on job ID at the Pulpito page for your tests. It's more convenient to
download the log and then view it rather than viewing it in an internet
browser since these logs can easily be upto size of 1 GB. What's much more
easier is to log in to the teuthology machine again
(``teuthology.front.sepia.ceph.com``), and access the following path::

    /ceph/teuthology-archive/<test-id>/<job-id>/teuthology.log

For example, for above test ID path is::

    /ceph/teuthology-archive/teuthology-2019-12-10_05:00:03-smoke-master-testing-basic-smithi/4588482/teuthology.log

This way the log remotely can be viewed remotely without having to wait too
much.

Naming the ceph-ci branch
-------------------------
There are no hard conventions for how the branch pushed on ceph-ci is named.
But, to make builds and tests easily identitifiable on Shaman and Pulpito
respectively, prepend it with your name. For example, branch ``feature-x``,
can be named ``wip-yourname-feature-x`` while pushing on ceph-ci.

> Delete the branch from ceph-ci, Once it's not required anymore. If you are

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Delete the branch from ceph-ci if not required.
```

Author: Fixed.

``target149202171058.teuthology``) are resolvable within the teuthology
cluster.

> Runing Integration Tests using Teuthology

Author: Fixed.

==========================================

Getting binaries
----------------
To run integration tests using teuthology, you need to have Ceph binaries
built for your branch. Following is how it can be done -

#. Push your branch to `ceph-ci`_ repository. This would trigger the process
   of building the binaries.

#. To confirm that the build process has initiated, spot your branch name
   at `shaman`_. Little after the build process has initiated, the single
   entry with your branch name would multiply, each new entry for a different
   OS.

#. Wait for building process to complete. Usually, it takes around 2-3 hours

>    depending on how busy the machines used for building are.

Reviewer 2: Maybe change it to
```suggestion
   depending on the availability of machines.
```

Author: Yeah, that nicer. Thanks!

Triggering tests
-----------------
After building is complete are ready, proceed to trigger tests -

#. Log in to the teuthology machine::

       ssh user@teuthology.front.sepia.ceph.com

   You would need access to sepia lab for this. If you don't have one, you can

>    request that.

Author: Thanks!

>    request that.

Author: I'll mention 110 since default is 1000, I suppose, which is too much.

>    request that.

Author: Fixed.

#. You would need to get teuthology commands installed. Run the first set of
   commands in `Running Your First Test`_. After that, activate the virtual
   environment where teuthology is installed.

#. Run the ``teuthology-suite`` command::

>         teuthology-suite -v -m smithi -c wip-cephfs-shell-feature-x -s fs -p 50 --filter "cephfs-shell"

Author: Yeah, true. Nice point!

>         teuthology-suite -v -m smithi -c wip-cephfs-shell-feature-x -s fs -p 50 --filter "cephfs-shell"

Author: Fixed.

>         teuthology-suite -v -m smithi -c wip-cephfs-shell-feature-x -s fs -p 50 --filter "cephfs-shell"

Author: > Ask the user to check [1] and decide the priority after a --dry-run.

Adding this part to `Testing Priority` itself rather than to this part of the page.

>         teuthology-suite -v -m smithi -c wip-cephfs-shell-feature-x -s fs -p 50 --filter "cephfs-shell"

Author: > Don't give that 50 there, as everyone would start hundreds of jobs with priority 50

I'll mention 110 since default is 1000, I suppose, which is too much.

>         teuthology-suite -v -m smithi -c wip-cephfs-shell-feature-x -s fs -p 50 --filter "cephfs-shell"

Author: https://github.com/ceph/ceph/pull/32145

>         teuthology-suite -v -m smithi -c wip-cephfs-shell-feature-x -s fs -p 110 --filter "cephfs-shell"

Reviewer 3: > 110

Now this is a delayed run for feature/fix running `< 25` jobs. For example mgr/volumes plugin `--filter volumes` gives only 2 jobs which could be run with a higher priority. Please check https://docs.ceph.com/docs/master/dev/developer_guide/#testing-priority.

Is this an example only for `cephfs-shell`? If not, we could make this command more generic which is appropriate for all users.

Author: > > 110
> 
> Now this is a delayed run for feature/fix running `< 25` jobs. For example mgr/volumes plugin `--filter volumes` gives only 2 jobs which could be run with a higher priority. Please check https://docs.ceph.com/docs/master/dev/developer_guide/#testing-priority.
> 

The number present there is just a placeholder.

> Is this an example only for `cephfs-shell`? If not, we could make this command more generic which is appropriate for all users.

There is no such that can be appropriate in all cases to all users.

   Following are the options used in above command with their meaning -
        -v          verbose
        -m          machine name
        -c          branch name, the branch that was pushed on cep-ci
        -s          test-suite name
        -p          priority number; see `Testing Priority`_
        --filter    filter tests in given suite that needs to run, the arg to
                    filter should be the test you want to run

#. Wait for the tests to run. ``teuthology-suite``'s prints a link to the
   `pulpito`_ page created for your tests. Once the tests have finished
   running, it's more convenient to download and then view the log than
   viewing it in a internet browser since these logs can easily be upto size

>    of 1 GB.

Reviewer 3: May be just mention how to locate the `teuthology.log` and teuthology-archives in teuthology.front.sepia.ceph.com?

Author: Agreed, I'll elaborate on that.

Author: Added.

repository is a integration test suite, so you can look within that directory
to decide an appropriate argument for ``-s``.

For picking an argument for ``--filter``, look within
``qa/suites/<suite-name>/<subsuite-name>/tasks`` to get keywords for filtering
tests. Each YAML file in there can trigger a bunch of tests; using the name of
the file, without the extension part of the file name, as argument to the
``--filter`` will trigger those tests. For example, the sample command above
uses ``cephfs-shell`` since there's a file named ``cephfs-shell.yaml`` in
``qa/suites/fs/basic_functional/tasks/``. In case, the file name doesn't hint
what bunch of tests would it trigger, you can look at file contents for
``modules`` argument. For ``cephfs-shell.yaml`` it is
``tasks.cephfs.test_cephfs_shell`` which means it'll triger all tests in
``qa/tasks/cephfs/test_cephfs_shell.py``.

Other frequently used/useful options are ``--dry-run``, ``-d`` (or
``--distro``), ``--distroversion``, ``--filter-out``, ``-timeout``,
``flavor``, ``--timeout``, ``-rerun``. Run ``teuthology-suite --help``
to read description of these and every other options available. In case you

> want to kill ajob after trigerring it, use ``teuthology-kill``.

Author: Agreed, I'll elaborate on that. I'll add a new section saying `Killing Tests`, I guess.

> want to kill ajob after trigerring it, use ``teuthology-kill``.

Author: Mentioned.

built for your branch. Follow these steps to initiate the build process -

#. Push the branch to `ceph-ci`_ repository. This triggers the process of
   building the binaries.

#. To confirm that the build process has initiated, spot the branch name
   at `Shaman`_. Little after the build process has initiated, the single
   entry with your branch name would multiply, each new entry for a different
   OS.

#. Wait until the build process is complete (preferably, for every distro).
   Usually, it takes around 2-3 hours depending on the availability of the
   machines.

.. note:: Branch to be pushed on ceph-ci can be any branch, it shouldn't
   necessarily be a PR branch.

.. note:: In case you are pushing master or any other standard branch, check
   `Shaman`_ beforehand since it already might have builds ready for it.

Triggering Tests
----------------
After building is complete, proceed to trigger tests -

#. Log in to the teuthology machine::

       ssh <username>@teuthology.front.sepia.ceph.com

   This would require Sepia lab access. To know how to request it, see: https://ceph.github.io/sepia/adding_users/

> #. Next, get teuthology installed. Run the first set of commands in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Next, run the first set of commands in
```

>    `Running Your First Test`_ for that. After that, activate the virtual

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   `Running Your First Test`_ to set-up teuthology. After that, activate the virtual
```

   environment in which teuthology is installed.

#. Run the ``teuthology-suite`` command::

        teuthology-suite -v -m smithi -c wip-devname-feature-x -s fs -p 110 --filter "cephfs-shell"

>    Following are the options used in above command with their meanings -

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Description of the options used in above command -
```

``target149202171058.teuthology``) are resolvable within the teuthology
cluster.

Running Integration Tests using Teuthology
==========================================

Getting binaries
----------------
To run integration tests using teuthology, you need to have Ceph binaries
built for your branch. Follow these steps to initiate the build process -

#. Push the branch to `ceph-ci`_ repository. This triggers the process of
   building the binaries.

#. To confirm that the build process has initiated, spot the branch name
   at `Shaman`_. Little after the build process has initiated, the single

>    entry with your branch name would multiply, each new entry for a different

Reviewer: each new entry for a different combination of distro and flavor.

Author: Fixed it. Thanks!

   OS.

> #. Wait until the build process is complete (preferably, for every distro).

Reviewer: Wait until the build process is complete, the built packages get uploaded, and the repository offering them are created

Author: Fixed it. Thanks!
